Some secular authorities have drawn wrong conclusions about the involvement of the congregation
of Jehovah's Witnesses when an individual commits a serious wrong that violates both civil
law and scriptural law.
Part of the misunderstanding involves our use of the term judicial committee.
Some erroneously conclude that the congregation is trying to take over the work of the police
or the judicial courts, and that's simply not the case, as explained in the May 2019
Watchdower page 7 that our comments are taken from here today.
So let's briefly review the history of handling judicial matters amongst God's people.
I'd like to do so under this theme, older men and superior authorities standing in their proper place.
Now, it is important to remember that Jehovah has always and will always be the judge over all the
year. That's a carnivid genesis 18 and verse 25. But how Jehovah has his judgment determined
and the punishment administered has changed over a period of time, who he allows to do that.
At first, of course, he was the judge. You take Adam and Eve, right? He made the decision.
It was a swift action. He pronounced the sentence and moved him right out of the garden of Eden
immediately. But Jehovah God has never abdicated his authority as the universal judge, but as time
has gone on and the human family has grown, then he delegated judicial authority to others.
Now, the first were the patriarchs, and they would then handle matters within their own family
units. And then later, Israel started to grow. There were hundreds of thousands, and so older
men were appointed to handle matters within the nation. But remember, at a time then, they were
also in Egypt, and they were in captivity as slaves. And so this group of older men would have
limits on their judicial authority, but that limit was about to change. Because the Israelites left
the Egyptian bondage in Nyson 14, 1513 BCE. And about a year later, then they went into a covenant
with Jehovah God called the law covenant. So, Jehovah gave laws that would include all the
aspects of their life. Now, sometime later, notice what Jehovah said to Moses. I'm going to
Numbers 11 and verse 16. Numbers 11, 16. Jehovah replied to Moses,
gather for me 70 men from the elders of Israel, men whom you recognize as elders and officials
of the people. So, these 70 men chosen from all of the elders, then were special officers.
So, think about it now. The Israel had a national law, and now they had an arrangement of older men
that could enforce the law. This was a sovereign nation under Jehovah God. So, all aspects,
spiritually, a civil, a criminal wrongdoing, it was all handled by the older men. They would hear
the matter, they would render judgment, they would assist the victim, and they would administer
appropriate discipline. But in time, the nomadic Israelites then took over the promised land,
and they went back to dwelling in fixed homes, and they then had communities. But these were
special boundaries where Jehovah's law was the law of the land. The older men became responsible
for handling it on a community level. They acted as judges, they would administer justice,
they made sure there was good order, they maintained peace, and they also handled the spiritual
needs of the community. Now, this was the Israel's judicial system for 900 years, from 1513 BCE
to 607 when Jerusalem was destroyed. This was a unique period in the time of God's people.
It was the only time when God's people, as a nation, were in complete control of their entire
judicial process. During this time, only Jehovah's law was applied within Israel's fixed boundaries.
But notice the change that happened when the Babylonians took over and conquered Jerusalem
in 607. We'll go to Deuteronomy chapter 28 and verse 64. It says, Jehovah will scatter you among
all the nations from the one end of the earth to the other end of the earth. And that's exactly
what happened. They no longer were going to be in Israel. They would be in communities far
away from Israel. Under the Persian rule, there were scattered in 127 districts. And the Greek
rule, Alexander the Great, brought many of the Jews to his new city, Alexandria, under the Roman
rule, they allowed Jewish communities within their cities throughout their empire. So,
though these old men lived in these communities, see the local laws would be enforced by the local
secular authorities. And that's, according to what the Apostle Paul said in Romans 13, verse 1,
that were the superior authorities that he had referenced too. So here's the question,
when the Christian congregation was established, would the entire judicial process, both civil
and scriptural, once again be handled by the old men in the congregation? Well, the answer is
no. And for good reason. Now, it's true, the global brotherhood would all be unified under one
scriptural law. And that scriptural law would be applied in every congregation, no matter what land,
what country they were in. But what about the secular laws, governing civil and criminal matters?
Well, unlike the scriptural law, secular laws are specific to the land that they govern.
For instance, secular authorities definition of crime and enforcement of penalties are not
consistent from land to land. I take this example, substance abuse. Well, what constitutes illegal
abuse? What's the quantity consumed that would make it illegal? If you're driving
some vehicle and you're under the influence, what's the punishment if there is any punishment?
You see, the answer to those questions really vary widely from country to country. In fact, even from
state to state at times. So it's up to the secular governments to determine the penalties and to
enforce them. So in conclusion, Jehovah allows the superior authorities, the governments as it were,
to prosecute and administer civil and criminal law. Now, the authorities are vested
with the power to punish those who violate those laws. That too is an accord with Romans chapter 13.
The Christian congregation is not and never has been a substitute for the secular authorities.
And that's why the congregation does not shield individuals from this secular arrangement.
Now, it's true. If a member of the congregation commits a sin that is also a crime in the
eyes of the secular law, then of course the secular law will handle that. But Jehovah allows the
congregation elders to handle the spiritual or scriptural aspect of the sin. And this would then
assures that his name and his reputation are upheld and the parties themselves are able to be
helped spiritually. So in this way, prior to the new world of righteousness, the judge of all the
earth uses older men and the superior authorities both standing in their proper place to accomplish his will.